e
you
all
for
me
e
[Music]
for
the 9,
442nd meeting of the Security Council is
called to order
the provisional agenda for this meeting
is the situation in the Middle East
including the Palestinian
question the agenda is
adopted the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the
agenda members of the council have
before them document
s223
773 the text of a draft resolution sub
admitted by
Brazil the council is ready to proceed
to the vote on the draft resolution
before
it the representative of the Russian
Federation has submitted amendments to
the text of the draft
resolution I give the floor to the
representative of the Russian
Federation Mr President
during consultations on the 17th of
October many members of the council
sought to dissuade us to vote on our
humanitarian depoliticized draft
resolution we were asked to wait 24
hours in order to reach a consensus
draft resolution we did not agree with
that and we were right because
ultimately after almost two days the
vote is on a resolution that is slightly
changed but was not discussed by the
members of the council we regret that
the council wasted a very precious 366
hours during which time the number of
casualties increase the strike on the
hospital in Gaza yesterday killed
hundreds of people given this the
inaction from the security Council looks
appalling yesterday we did warn
colleagues that we just can't waste any
time now distinguished colleagues I will
speak
frankly the time for diplomatic
metaphors is long gone everybody who did
not support our humanitarian resolution
with a call for a swift ceasefire must
understand that they bear uh some of the
responsibility for what
happened the Brazil draft resolution
unfortunately will not help to avoid
such tragedies from occurring there is
no clear call in it for a ceasefire this
is a very important thing to deescalate
the situation on the ground it's very
important
wording H it that has been replaced with
humanitarian
pauses and giving unhindered access to
un workers but that's not the same same
thing humanitarian pauses will not help
to stop the Bloodshed it is only a
ceasefire that will help to do this
furthermore the draft sh still has a
number of political elements in it that
push us to one side and do
not talk about the absolute
unacceptability of the attacks on
civilians in the Gaza
Strip and also as on civilian
objects the importance of this is
absolutely crystal clear for everyone
right now and so we have proposed two
amendments to address these issues the
first is a unambiguous call for a stop
on uh the indiscriminate attacks against
civilians in the Gaza Strip and on
civilian objects including the uh attack
on the Al Ali hospital that air strike
and also the strong condemnation of the
imposition of the
blockade the second adds to the op a new
point on the call for an immediate
durable and fully respected humanitarian
ceasefire if these are not included in
the text of the document it will not
help
to address the tragic devastating
humanitarian situation
rather it will just worsen The Divide in
between members of the committee and
will polarize the positions of members
of the International Community we would
urge members of the council to vote in
support of the Amendments proposed by
Russia thank
you I thank the representative of the
Russian Federation for their
statement would any other member wish to
take the floor I see none
members of the council have before them
proposed amendment submitted by the
Russian Federation to the text of the
draft resolution contained in document
s223 773 submitted by
Brazil Rule 36 of the council's
provisional rules of procedure States
the
following if two or more amendments to a
motion of or draft resolution are
proposed osed the president shall rule
on the order in which they are to be
voted upon ordinarily the security
Council shall first vote on the
amendment furthest removed in substance
from the original proposal and then on
the amendment next furthest removed
until all amendments have been put to
the vote but when an amendment adds to
to or deletes from the text of a motion
or draft resolution that Amendment shall
be voted on
first accordingly I intend to put the
proposed amendment to the vote
first I shall now put to the vote the
proposed amendment to be inserted after
operative paragraph two of the draft
resolution this amendment is contained
in document
s223
775 will those in favor of the proposed
amendment to be inserted after operative
paragraph 2 contained in document
s223
775 please raise their
hand
against
abstentions the result of the Voting is
as
follows six votes in favor one vote
against eight
abstentions
the proposed amendment has not been
adopted having failed to obtain the
required number of
[Applause]
votes
it's after good I shall now put to the
vote the proposed amendment to be
inserted before operative paragraph one
of the draft resolution this amendment
is contained in document
s223
776 will those in favor of the proposed
amendment to be inserted before oper
paragraph 1 contained in document
s223
sl77
776 please uh raise their
hand
favor
against
abstentions
the result of the Voting is as follows
seven votes in favor one vote against
seven
abstentions the proposed amendment has
not been adopted having failed to obtain
the required number of
votes
the representative of the Russian
Federation has asked for the
floor distinguished Mr President
distinguished delegates
the vote on the immediate
ceasefire and on an
unequivocal condemnation of the
indiscriminate attack did not get past
those delegations who either abstained
or voted against essentially were
against the cessation of a Bloodshed in
the Middle East that could be no other
explanations of it of course the
colleagues
here saying well their justification was
it was not balanced but all of these
complaints are just going to be empty
you've made your choice however and you
are going to have to bear responsibility
for it to the country's people of your
countries and to the people in the
region and the people who are living
under this terrible deadly threat thank
you I thank the representative of the
Russian Federation for their
statement it is my understanding that
the council is ready to proceed to the
vote on the draft resolution contained
in document
s223 773 submitted by Brazil
I shall put the draft resolution to the
vote
now will those in favor of the draft
resolution contained in document
s223
773 please raise their
hand
uh will those
against
abstentions the result of the Voting is
as follows 12 12 votes in favor one vote
against two
extensions the draft resolution has not
been adopted owing to the negative vote
of a permanent member of the
council
the draft resolution
no I now give the floor to those members
of the council who wish to make
statements after the
vote I shall now uh I shall now made a
statement in my capacity as the
representative of
Brazil
dear
colleagues at last Friday's closed
consultations council members asked for
Brazil's leadership in our capacity as
presiden in October to facilitate a
council response to the the escalating
crisis in Israel and Palestine in
particular its humanitarian
aspects we heeded the call with a sense
of urgency and
responsibility in our view the council
had to take action and to do so very
quickly Council paralysis in the face of
a humanitarian catastrophe is not in the
interest of the International
Community therefore throughout last
weekend and the following days we worked
very hard through extensive and
collaborative engagement with council
members to help build a unified
position while while making a good faith
effort to accommodate
different sometimes opposing positions
our Focus was and remains on the
critical humanitarian situation on the
ground political realism guided us but
our sight was always set on the
humanitarian
imperative exactly as in other very
sensitive files on the council's agenda
in which Brazil had a special role to
play international humanitarian law and
human rights law provided a clear
framework for
Action our proposed text
unequivocally condemned all forms of
violence against civilians including the
henus acts of terrorism by Hamas and The
Taking of hostages it called for their
immediate and unconditional release it
also called on all parties to strictly
abide by their International legal
obligations in particular those relating
to the protection of civilians civilian
infrastructure and humanitarian
Personnel the draft resolution also
stressed the urgent need for
humanitarian access to
civilians the text Incorporated urgent
and multiple calls by the UN and many
other actors for humanitarian pauses to
allow for the delivery of Aid and the
voluntary safe passage of civilians
it encouraged the establishment of
humanitarian corridors and other
mechanisms to facilitate the smooth
delivery of Aid the draft further
reflected the ethical necessity to
provide civilians in Gaza with
electricity water fuel food and medical
supplies the necessity to be protected
from Forced relocation when the
prevailing conditions on the ground do
not ensure a safe and secure
displacement thus faced with heinous
terrorist acts against Israeli civilians
with the forceful reaction to such acts
and an never growing humanitarian
disaster imposed on Gaza the council
response we proposed was robust and
balanced we are grateful to all council
members who engaged with us since last
Friday and demonstrated a sincere and
practical commitment to
multilateralism sadly very sadly the
council was yet again unable to adopt a
resolution on the Israeli Palestinian
conflict again silence and inaction
prevailed to no one's true long-term
interest while we deeply regret that
Collective action is made impossible in
the security Council we do hope that
efforts by other actors will yield
positive
results they must be prompt effective
and
substantial hundreds of thousands of
civilians in Gaza cannot wait any longer
actually they have waited for far too
long to no avail I thank
you I resume my function as president of
the
council and I'll give the floor to the
Russian
Federation Mr President dear
colleagues we have just been Witnesses
once again of hypocrisy and the double
standards of our American colleagues not
standing in principle in the security
Council they really did not want
to have um any solution made found here
so so because of this they had
to just uh be very obvious as to what
their intentions were before us here all
today now I'm not going to waste your
time on going on about this I think it's
Crystal Clear what's happened but I
would just like to talk about what the
head of Lockheed Martin James head said
yesterday talking to the American Media
he said there's no point in in uh
restraining Israel from any military
actions what is the point in the future
the future development of our
military-industrial complex um which
will increase by at least 2% of
GDP there are conflicts which need to be
resolved with arms and we are prepared
to provide These Arms these weapons end
of
quote as we say no comment really that
is the very essence of the US's policy
in the region and the Pacific region we
do hope that thanks to that our
International Partners after today's
votes will have no Illusions about that
and what they're intending whatsoever
thank
you I thank the representative of the
Russian Federation and I give the floor
to the representative of the United
States thank you Mr
President colleagues as we meet
President Biden is in the region his
trip is a clear demonstration of the
fact that the United States is actively
engaging at the highest levels to secure
the release of hostages to prevent the
conflict from spreading to stress the
need to protect civilian lives to
address the humanitarian crisis facing
Palestinians in Gaza and to demonstrate
to the Israeli people that the United
States stands with them in their time of
sorrow and
need we are on the ground doing the hard
work of diplomacy and while we recognize
Brazil's desire to move this text
forward we believe we need to let that
diplomacy play out especially when
Secretary General guaras President Biden
secretary blinkin and Regional actors
are engaged in intensive Dialogue on the
very issues we are deliberating on
today yes resolutions are important and
yes this Council must speak out but the
actions we take must be informed by the
facts on the ground and support direct
diplomacy efforts that can save lives
the council needs to get this
right colleagues the United States is
disappointed this resolution made no
mention of Israel's rights of
self-defense like every nation in the
world Israel has the inherent right of
self-defense as reflected in article 51
of the UN Charter following previous
terrorist attacks by groups such as
Al-Qaeda and Isis this Council
reaffirmed that right this text should
have done the same though we could not
support this resolution going forward we
will continue to work closely with all
council members on this pressing issue
just as we will continue to reiterate
the need to protect civilians including
members of the media humanitarian
workers and un officials and when I talk
about the protection of CI civilians I
mean all civilians the United States is
horrified and saddened by yesterday's
explosion at the Ali Arab Hospital in
Gaza
we mourn this tragic tragic loss of life
on the humanitarian front we are working
with Israel its neighbors the United
Nations and other partners to address
the humanitarian crisis in Gaza it is
critical that food medicine water and
fuel begin flowing into Gaza as soon as
possible families the elderly and
children are in our need let's be clear
hamas's own actions have brought this on
this severe humanitarian crisis in Gaza
and Hamas has caused so much needless
suffering death and
destruction every member State Should
condemn hamas's terrorism and cruelty
and every member State should call on
Hamas to cease its endless barrage of
rockets against Israel this is not
complicated it's not controversial this
is the bare
minimum colleagues at this difficult
moment let us all call for the
protection of civilians and
unequivocally condemn Hamas let us all
affirm Israel's right of self-defense
and support the Urgent diplomatic
efforts underway let us stand with the
UN and other partners as they work to
alleviate the humanitarian crisis facing
Palestinians in Gaza and let us all
support equal measures of justice and
freedom for Israelis and Palestinians
alike thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United States and I give the floor
to the representative of
Malta thank you
president Malta voted in favor of the
draft resolution tabled by Brazil Malta
has also abstained on the two amendments
proposed by the Russian
Federation although we have no issue
with the substance we saw no reason to
alter a well-crafted resolution that
rests on a delicate balance and that
sought Council Unity on this critical
matter we deeply regret that the I'm
sorry I
am yes I'm sorry we deeply regret that
the draft resolution was not adopted and
remain Gravely concerned at the highly
volatile situation in Israel and Gaza
excuse me not withstanding this decision
the council must critically remain
seized with the matter and strive to
work towards constructive steps which
prioritize the protection of civilians
and prevent any potential Regional
configur
conflagration within this context Malta
unequivocally condemns in the strongest
possible terms the barbaric terrorist
acts perpetrated by Hamas on Israeli
soil and gains the people of Israel
Malta
emphasizes that Israel has the right to
save the fence in the face of such
violent and indiscriminate attacks it
has the right and obligation to protect
its territory and its people in line
with humanitarian and international law
and the principles of Distinction and
proportionality we also reiterate our
call on Hamas to unconditionally and
safely release the hostages
immediately President we deeply regret
that casualties of this war have already
included numerous medical humanitarian
and un staff hundreds were killed in
yesterday's horrific strike on the alahi
Baptist Hospital in Gaza that was
shelter ing thousands of this place such
actions are deplorable they are a blunt
breach of international law which
categorically prohibits endangering
civilians medical staff and humanitarian
establishments this is the inevitable
result of the military operations that
are being conducted in Gaza one of the
most densely populated places on Earth
decisions to cut off electricity water
supply and refuse supplies of Aid and
fuel are also deeply concerning and are
leading to catastrophic results the
evacuation order which displaced over a
million people to South Gaza has had
serious humanitarian
consequences such decisions are in
consistent with International
humanitarian law and must be rescinded
Malta also stresses The crucial
importance that there be a rapid
unhindered humanitarian access to Gaza
and urge is the immediate establishment
of humanitarian corridors in this
regard at this juncture the importance
of preventing a regional spillover is
critical it is therefore imperative for
all parties to exercise maximum
restraint and fully comply with the
Norms of international law our efforts
moving forward must be steadfast in
aligning with a just and comprehensive
resolution of the Middle East conflict
thank
you I thank the representative of Malta
for their state statement and I now give
the floor to the representative of
China thank you Mr President Mr
President the night before last I
already gave a comprehensive account of
China's views on the current situation
in Palestine and Israel in the next
emergency meeting I shall elaborate on
China's position I shall focus on
China's position on today's vote and the
fact that the draft resolution failed to
be adopted and our reaction is that of
shock and
disent the night before last the Russian
resolution focused on the situation in
pistan and Israel focusing on the
protection of civilians and that
resolution adopted received a lot
support from countries however some
countries have chosen to cast NE vote
the reason given at the point was that
they were actually uh more intended to
base their positions on the resolution
table by Brazil so to get more time to
deliberate the colleagues from the
Brazil and the colle other colleagues
have agreed to that request by
postponing the meeting for another to 24
hours and now it's been proposed
proposed again to this point over the
past 40 hours they have neither comed on
nor expressed opposition to the
Brazilian draft and which led us to
expect that today hopefully they will
vote in favor of this resolution and
Council will be able to adopt the
resolution favorably however the final
result of the vote is nothing short of
unbelievable it is also the belief of
China that the Brazilian resolution
still has rooms for improvement it
should send a strong message asking for
ceasefire and protection of civilians so
as to pre prevent humanitarian
catastrophe therefore China has propos
proposed amendments that intended to
improve the trft while at the same time
agreeing with the Russian amendments and
the Russian Amendment the fact that it
failed to be adopted we are simp very
disappointed that been the case in view
of the fact that the situation in Gaza
is deteriorating
rapidly what happened yesterday that is
the air strike on the hospital hospital
and things like that resulted in s and
casualties in the hundreds therefore the
council has to take rapid
actions China condemns strongly the a
strike against hospitals and we urge
Israel to effectively abide by the
obligations under the international
humanitarian law we call for ceasefire
and protection of Civilian civilian so
as to prevent and further civilian
casualties the draft resolution tabled
by Brazil in general reflects the
constant the general view of the
International Community representing the
original initial steps to be taken by
Council to achieve a ceas fire and they
could be possibly the only possible
draft that Council can reach consensus
on under the current circumstances some
countries early saying that the council
should take a care direct action however
the way they voted on the tax in
question make us doubt their willingness
for the council to take real actions and
their willingness to find a solution to
the problem in the final analysis the
council should not stand on its hands
the current situation in Gaza is
escalating more and more civilians are
paying the prices with their lives and
sparing the brown of the conflict and
therefore on the question of ceasefire
and C of two hostilities at protection
of civilians the council has to
effectively shower its responsibility
and they play its due role thank
you I thank the representative of China
for their statement and I I'll give the
floor to the representative of
mosambik Mr
President mosambik wishes to commend
Brazil and your
presidency for the excellent
leadership in
conducting this
uh
work which is
th but
important we also thank you for
providing the security
Council with a very valuable
text we have voted in favor of the draft
resolution we deeply regret that uh the
draft could not be
adopted due to a
veto in voting in favor mosambik wishes
to express our deep
concern over the outbreak and escalation
of violence and
deterioration of the situation in Gaza
and consequence
L the unfolding humanitarian
crisis
moreover we are deeply
concerned about the human lives that are
being lost on a daily
basis since the conflict
erupted the civilian population mainly
children women and the elderly are
suffering the most from the atrocities
and Grave effects of this
war in supporting this
Resolution mosambik Associates
ourself with the collective efforts of
this
Council aimed at ensuring the protection
of
civilians and the respect for
international human rights
law inter National humanitarian law the
Geneva Convention has
applied to this conflict both in Gaza
and in
Israel it our it is our strong
call that humanitarian Aid must reach
the needy populations in
Gaza that includes the provision of
essential goods and services as well as
medical
supplies Mr
President we are conscious of the fact
that
ultimately humanitarian
problems need political
Solutions this
belief reflects our own
experience originated from our
protracted
struggle against against
colonialism racism and apartheid in the
southern African
region in this
context we urge all the parties to
immediately stop attacks refrain from
further violence and engage in
constructive
dialogue mosambik firmly believes that
Israel and
Palestine can only resolve their
differences through
dialogue we hold the
view that peace is always possible if
the conflicting parties are genuinely
willing to follow the path of justice
and
tolerance we therefore wish to reiterate
our appeal to the members of this
Council to redouble our
efforts toward a sustainable solution to
the
Israeli Palestine
conflict we
believe the Palestinian people and the
Israeli people have their inable right
to
statehood they can live together side by
side in peace and security as good
neighbors as a a matter of fact the
charter compels the parties and indeed
the entire International
Community to practice tolerance and live
together in peace with one another as
good neighbors I thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
mosambik for their statement and I now
give the floor to the represent
resentative of Ghana I thank you Mr
President and let me Begin by thanking
your presidency and all delegations for
the efforts made to have a consensual
resolution that could have helped
support the efforts of this Council to
deescalate the rising tensions and
respond to the tragic situation that we
are all witnessing in the Gaza Strip and
in southern Israel we deeply regret that
the resolution could not pass for we
have always held that the council should
as far as possible speak in one voice on
this important dispute whose for lines
reached many distant parts of the world
we have therefore from the very
beginning given priority to the efforts
entrusted to the presidency to lead all
of us in that direction it was in this
regard also that we voted in favor of
the Brazilian draft resolution but
deemed it important to abstain from the
draft resolution proposed on Monday
night
and the amendments to today's resolution
to preserve the broadest possible
agreement that was found to guide us in
a common
Direction despite the high sensitivities
of the Decades old Israeli Palestinian
conflict and the differences and
approaches we may have in resolving it
what should be Paramount is our historic
responsibility as a council to deliver
the two-state solution and preserve the
lives of the two Nations whose Destinies
are bound by history and a common and
shared
area the council's inability to act on
its responsibility today however should
not break our resolve we believe that
the United Council voice and action on
the matter is still required and
critical in stabilizing the situation
and assisting the parties to enter into
dialogue which is the only viable path
to durable
peace we should therefore continue to
ask the parties to deescalate seek
consensus to support mediation efforts
and knock on the doors of all those that
can have a moderating influence on the
parties to open up the space for
dialogue I thank
you I thank the representative of Ghana
for their statement and I now give the
floor to the representative of
Japan thank you Mr President Japan voted
in favor of the
resolution because it can support its
main ideas bearing in mind various
perspectives including the humanitarian
situation in
Gaza Japan has unequivocally condemn the
terror attacks by hammer and others and
called for the immediate release of
those who were
kidnapped we feel strong indignation at
the tremendous damage and harm to
innocent civilians brought by the attack
on a hospital in Gaza Gaza City on the
17th
at the same time he would like to point
out that Japan had asked to delay the
vote on this resolution proposed by
Brazil understanding that various
countries including the United States
have been continuing to make diplomatic
efforts on the ground to improve the
situation as soon as possible Japan
expresses its great regret at the fact
that the resolution was voted to a vote
today
nevertheless Japan has consistently and
strongly supported and put the face in
diplomatic efforts by US President Biden
and other relevant
countries all of us including those who
refer to hypocrisy in particular should
think twice if we are really faithful to
Human Rights principles and if we are
doing sufficient efforts to make
difference on the ground in improving
humanitarian situation actions are
needed Japan will continue to work
together with other other countries to
ensure the safety of civilians and
realize an early deescalation of the
situation I thank you Mr President I
thank the representative of Japan and I
now give the floor to the representative
of Switzerland
mer thank you president on the 7th of
October already Switzerland firmly
condemned the terrorist acts the
indiscriminate attacks and hostage
taking perpetrated by Hamas against the
Israeli people we de the deaths of
thousands of civilians including
hundreds of children in Israel and the
occupied Palestinian territory
particularly Gaza Switzerland Echoes the
Secretary General in condemning
unequivocally the strikes particularly
those who which according to United
Nations figures have led to hundreds of
deaths and dozens of injured yesterday
in the alaki hospital Anglican Episcopal
church and we express our sincere
condolences to the injured and the
victim victims we are concerned
regarding the large scale humanitarian
crisis in Gaza and the dramatic
situation F by civilians almost a
million people have been
displaced and it is urgent for
humanitarian Aid to be able to enter
water electricity and medical supplies
are being uh are
dwindling we have all spoken around this
table yesterday about the situation in
the Middle East which requires United
urgent action by the council
deescalation protection of
civilians Humane treatment for all
hostages and Switzerland calls for an
immediate release as well as Rapid Safe
unhindered humanitarian access are all
priorities the draft resolution tabled
by Brazil met these
priorities with a aiming for a common
understanding by this Council which is
why we invite voted in favor for it of
it and very much regret the failure to
adopt the resolution put to the vote
today I wish to thank your delegation
once again president for your sustained
commitment it is regrettable that we
have not yet been able to reach
consensus on a product showing our unity
in the face of this situation
independently of the adoption of a
resolution all the parties must uphold
International humanitarian law
particularly the principles of
Distinction proportionality and
precaution as well as human rights
International humanitarian law takes
account of the of legitimate secur
security and Military needs all of these
rules must therefore be respected with
no exception president Switzerland has
deployed every effort to contribute to
reaching consensus on a council product
in this urgent
situation along these same lines we
remain at the dispo your disposal to
support any new initiatives which could
result in action by this Council thank
you I thank the representative of
Switzerland for their statement and I
now give the floor to the representative
of
Gabon thank you
president this morning this council is
seeing its credibility put to the test
given the scope of the deadly violence
in Israel and Gaza and the extreme
gravity of the crisis in the Middle East
whose shock wave is threatening peace
and Security in the whole of the region
and
Beyond as Security Council our mandate
is to Halt Wars or failing that to
prevent them and to alleviate the human
suffering born of
Crisis this morning the security Council
was not equal to this
mandate the rhetoric around this table
provided no sucker no help to civilians
in Gaza who are falling in the face of
indiscriminate strikes by missiles and
Rockets and who are deprived of all
means of survival
once
again politics and geopolitics have
paralyzed this council's capacity for
Action this council is not reacting in
the face of horror and the screams of
distress of
civilians in the face of one of the most
serious crisis in the Middle East and we
are counting the deaths and the
destruction whilst remaining powerless
this Council has not provided any
coherent response to provide a glimmer
of hope to the children the women the
hostages and the peoples of the world
who were watching our
deliberations for their
survival and for saving them my country
voted in favor of the draft resolution
tabled by the Brazilian presidency and
the two amendments proposed because it
is crucial and Urgent to act having
issued foot strong condemnations of the
barbaric attacks against Israel on the
7th of October last and recognized
Israel's right to legitimate defense
whilst upholding the principles of
proportionality and distinction against
with regard to combatants and
civilians we firmly believe that given
the magnitude of the deadly violence
which over a few days has caused
thousands of death and immeasurable
humanitarian distress we
must call for an immediate cessation of
hostilities and the opening of
humanitarian corridors was to alleviate
the suffering of civilians our position
has been clear since the first council
meeting hostage taking is unacceptable
and unjustifiable and indefensible and
we reiterate the hostages must be
released with no conditions and no
blackmail we regret the fact that the
council was unable to O to overcome its
divisions we must certainly show greater
responsibility so as to find a solution
to the crisis in the Middle
East who whose chronis chronic nature
questions our credibility and tarnishes
our reputation for gabar the two-state
solution is the only credible
alternative we can and must achieve this
through diplomacy good faith negotiation
and overcoming fears and self-interest
which are distancing us from our
Collective responsibility of maintaining
peace and Security in the region and
Beyond thank you I thank the
representative of Gabon for their
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of the United
Kingdom thank you president and let me
start by thanking you for your good
faith efforts to negotiate this
resolution the draft resolution on which
we have just
voted rightly condemns the appalling
Hamas terrorist attacks on Israel on the
7th of
October it ALS also makes clear that all
actions need to be taken in line with
International humanitarian
law it
stresses the importance of ensuring
humanitarian access and protecting
civilians and
emphasizes this council's shared
priority of preventing Regional
escalation of the
conflict we welcome and support the
draft resolution's attempts to set out
the council's view on these critical
points but the draft resolution needed
to be clearer on Israel's inherent right
to self-defense in line with the UN
Charter after Hamas attacks killed over
1400 people and took almost 200 people
hostage
the draft resolution also ignored the
fact that Hamas are using innocent
Palestinian civilians as human
Shields they have embedded themselves in
civilian communities and made the
Palestinian people their victims
too for these reasons the United Kingdom
abstained on this
resolution
my prime minister has been clear that
the UK stands with Israel in the face of
these
atrocities we support Israel's right to
defend itself against
Hamas take back the
hostages deter further
incursions and strengthen its security
for the long
term in so
doing we will continue to call on Israel
to take all feasible precautions to
avoid harming Palestinian
civilians and to act in line with
International humanitarian
law we will continue to work closely
with Israel and our partners in the
region to respond to the humanitarian
crisis in
Gaza to ensure that civilians are
protected and have access access to Food
Water medicine and
shelter and to work towards the peace
and stability promised by the two-state
solution I thank you
president I thank the representative of
the United Kingdom for their statement
and I now give the floor to the
representative of
Ecuador presid
president
we voted in favor of the draft taed by
the Brazilian
presidency as did many other members of
this
Council it was the result of a
constructive Collective negotiating
process by all members of the
council and we are convinced that the
collective work and negotiation in good
faith are indispensable
for Effective
multilateralism and these are the best
way to fulfill the responsibilities
placed upon
us we fully believe president that the
council cannot continue in silence in
the face of events which are
clearly a threat to International Peace
and
security and which are already having
serious humanitarian consequences
the Brazilian presidency's draft
includes Elements which are necessary in
the face of a situation which is
worsening by the minute The credibility
of the council depends upon our
decisions at times like
this in this regard Ecuador vote
abstained with regard to the
Amendments since these are elements
which are covered in the
resolution we Reg reget the fact that
once
again the council was unable to adopt a
resolution through the use of the
veto but this is not the end of our
efforts we will do
everything within our reach to ensure
that the council can very soon pronounce
itself and act with regard to this
conflict president on the 24th of
September
the Ecuadorian councelor Antonio Lucio
Paredes spoke before the general
assembly and said and I quote that it is
necessary for the activities the actions
of the great Powers which in one way or
another support the parties to the
conflict in the Middle
East be guided toward seeking solutions
to establish constructive peace and not
do not hamper possible agreement and
understandings the Middle East conflict
because of its explosive nature compels
the United Nations to tirelessly attempt
to bring an end to
it close
quote these words remain valid even
though they were said over 50 years ago
thank you very much I thank the
representative of Ecuador for their
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of of
Albania thank you Mr President um we
thank Brazil for their efforts the
diligence in providing time and the
continued engagement with all the
security Council Members the text came
at a very critical moment not only for
the conflict between Israel and Hamas
and the huge impact it having it's
having on civilians but also for the
reviv dangers for the region and
Beyond Albania voted in favor because
the text responded to core objectives on
the issue and to our coherent and
principled position it strongly and
unequivocally condemned Hamas and its
indefensible terrorist attacks on Israel
on 7 October
2023 it called for the immediate release
of the hostages which should remain a
humanitarian priority as the Secretary
General called upon Hamas last Sunday
they should be released immediately and
unconditionally it provided for the
protection of civilians in accordance
with International humanitarian law and
the floww of the humanitarian Aid to all
those in need it also supports the
regional and international efforts for a
solution on the ground and Embraces a
diplomatic solution to the crisis in
this respect we commend the very active
engagement at every level by the United
States and others to finding the best
Solutions on the ground while we
supported the draft Albania reaffirms
its position in full support of Israel
and its right to self-defense like every
other nation under attack which the
resolution falls short to mention I
thank
you I thank the representative of
Albania for their statement and I now
give the floor to the representative of
the United Arab
Emirates Mr President it is perhaps
Beyond me to put into words the abject
Horrors we are witnessing in Gaza that
is why the United Arab Emirates fully
supported the council to take action
today and we still support that the
council does does take action on this
situation for more than 140 years the
alah Baptist Hospital has provided
Medical Care and shelter for generations
of gazin yesterday more than 500
Palestinians were killed in a strike
that hit the
hospital each passing hour of this
ruinous War makes a mockery of these
principles of international humanitarian
law Gaza is laid to waste and nobody
feels safe we call for a full
independent investigation into this
incident and for those who are
responsible to be held
accountable as we verify information
about the stripe one fact Still Remains
indisputable more Palestinians have died
in this outbreak of violence than in any
other in the history of the conflict in
less than two weeks of bombardment more
than 3,500 Palestinians have been killed
and more than 14,000 injured will we
continue to sit here and compare the
casualties on both sides we support no
less than a full humanitarian ceasefire
we don't ask for this to be done at the
expense of Israel's security but so that
people may tend to their wounded bury
their dead in dignity and begin putting
their lives back together this ceasefire
is also crucial so that vital
humanitarian Aid may enter and Aid
workers do their work safely Mr
President Hamas is indeed responsible
for sparking this latest fire that is
now engulfing the streets of Arab
capitals around the region we have
called them out on this openly for the
heus attacks on the 7th of October but
make no mistake the kindling was already
there fueled by Decades of violent
dehumanization dispossession and dispair
that is why we cannot however convenient
lose sight of the context of this crisis
the longest goinging occupation in the
world today of a people that do not wish
to be ruled and have been let down again
and again and again by all of
us Mr President the UAE voted for this
resolution not because it is a perfect
text but because it clearly states basic
principles which must be upheld and
which this Council is obliged to
reinforce and
uphold we really thank Brazil and its
delegation for their efforts and we
remain hopeful that in the coming days
we can unite behind a resolution and
that also in parallel diplomatic efforts
led by the United States help lead us
all off this Brink that we are edging
towards as I and others said yesterday
the current escalation must drive all of
us but most most importantly Israelis
and Palestinians to the Urgent work of
achieving the two-state solution let me
be clear the only alternative to that is
the violence we see right now three
years ago my country established
diplomatic relations with Israel the
Abraham Accords are grounded in a simple
but enduring truth that peace and
dialogue are better than violence and
enmity along with our Israeli and
American Partners we sought a new Middle
East where coexist and cooperation
deliver Prosperity security and peace
for all the indiscriminate damage
visited upon the people of Gaza in
pursuit of Israel's security risks
extinguishing that hope the region is
already contending with the spillover of
this crisis and the enemies of Peace are
Unapologetic about their aims let us not
play into their hands Mr President it
has been said over the past few days
that this crisis is a test for the
International Community and for the UN
Security Council that is
true Noah aramani a young Jewish woman
abducted by Hamas is in her second year
of computer studies at benan University
her mother is undergoing cancer
treatment and she is their only child in
a conversation with a journalist about
the horror inflicted on this family
Yakov recalled that in Gaza to families
are mourning their children he described
Israelis and Palestinians as two na with
one father and added that we can reach
true peace and I'm praying for this to
happen Amen to the hostages
return 22-year-old dun aburahma an
architectural student in Gaza is one of
the thousands of civilians today fleeing
South last night she told CNN that up
until recently all she had been thinking
about was her graduation project now all
she thinks about is how to be safe the
test colleagues is whether or not we
sustain that hope for peace that shines
even through a parent's unspeakable
anguish and a child's aspiration to just
be normal like the rest of us we cannot
do millions of people to misery because
diplomacy is hard we must keep trying
again and again and again we must
recognize that by continuing to fail to
respond to the Palestinians people's
legitimate aspirations for a country in
their Homeland we fuel this unrelenting
cycle of violence and hatred let us not
fail this test for the sake of Israelis
for the sake of Palestinians and for the
sake of All Peoples of the Middle East
thank
you I thank the representative of the
United Arab Emirates for their
statement there are no more names
inscribed on the list of
speakers the meeting is
adjourned
e
no
I know and I was like I was thinking
about something
e
okay
the
9,443 meeting of the Security Council is
called to
order the provisional agenda for this
meeting is the situation in the Middle
East including the Palestinian
question the agenda is
adopted in accordance with rule 37 of
the council's provisional rules of
procedure I invite the representative of
of Algeria Egypt Israel Jordan Libya
Oman Pakistan South Africa Syria and
Tunisia to participate in this
meeting it is so
decided I propose that the council
invite the permanent Observer of the
Observer state of Palestine to the
United Nations to participate in the
meeting in accordance with the
provisional rules of procedure and the
previous practice in this
regard there being no objection it is so
decided in accordance with rule 39 of
the council's provisional rules of
procedure I invite the following
briefers to par participate in this
meeting Mr Martin Griffiths under the
Secretary General for humanitarian
Affairs and emergency relief
coordinator and Mr Tor wesland special
coordinator for the Middle East peace
process it is so
decided in accordance with rule 39 of
the council's provisional rules of
procedure I also invite his Excellency
Mr Olaf skoo head of the delegation of
the European Union to the United Nations
to participate in this
meeting it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of the item two
of the agenda and I'll give the floor to
Mr Tor
wesland Mr President members of the
council the Secretary General and I have
briefed this Council extensively in
private over the last days on details of
the horrific and unprecedented events
that have been
unfolding relaying our utter
condemnation Shock And
Regret I will not repeat my briefings
here today noting that I will report on
the situation next week during my
regular monthly briefing my colleague
Martin will brief you on the
humanitarian
situation today I want to update you on
where we are on my efforts over the last
days to find a way to bring the end
hostilities and spare lives of
civilians I have to be very honest here
and now and say that this is one of the
most difficult moments facing the
Israeli and Palestinian people in the
last 75 days 75 years the massacre and
Despicable acts of violence and Terror
perpetrated by Hamas against Israel on 7
October are seed into our Collective
memories whole families killed women and
children
abducted uh to the
strip and held up until this day there
is no justification or excuse of such
Act of Terror and I condemn them
unequivocally we are facing a
devastating and clearly difficult
challenge for the region and for the
International Community
it comes at a moment when the global
institutions will need to
respond to such in such act and crisis
they are already
overstretched we are in a war and Wars
are filled with horrific scenes of
violence and
tragedy last night I watch in horror and
in real
time as I was you all did as reports of
mass casualties emerged from what should
be a protected site shielded from danger
a place of healing hundreds of
Palestinians who killed paans and those
seeking shelter when alak Hospital in
gasa city was struck by lethal
fire the circumstances of this
catastrophe and
responsibility remains still needs to be
clarified and we will need to be uh we
will and we will
need a fact
based fully investigation and Broad
investigation but the result of all this
is very clear Mr
President it is a terrible tragedy for
those who were
involved I fear that we are at the brink
of a deep and dangerous abys that could
change the trajectory of the Israeli
Palestinian conflict if not of the
Middle East as a whole after More Than A
Century of conflict and over half a
century of
occupation we the International
Community have
failed
collectively to bring the parties to a
just sustained political resolution the
longstanding isues Run Run Deep and
extend well beyond the conines of Israel
and the occupied Palestinian territory
the events of the past 11 days have
served to reignite Grievances and
reanimate alliances across the
region based on my meetings and the uh
Dynamics I observe on the ground I would
say the following the risk of an
expansion of this conflict is real very
very real and extremely
dangerous Mr President since the
outbreak of the current hostilities it
has been my absolute priority to work to
diminish the uh these existential
threats with the Secretary General I
have been in constant communication with
a broader range of interlocutors with
the parties with regional and
international actors who have agencies
and influence I will continue to do so
today I speak to you from DOA where the
authorities have assured me of their
continued commitment to the Palestinian
people and their humanitarian needs and
the urgency to prevent any further loss
of Civilian
lives meetings and ongoing discussions
with leaders in Egypt have focused not
only on the critical uh on the question
of facilitating access through rougher
Crossing on humanitarian assistance but
also our seared concern and efforts to
reign in further Regional
hostilities I will return to Cairo
tomorrow to join the Secretary General
to continue these political
discussions in this regard we welcome
president alissi Swift call for a summit
of world leaders to continue these
discussions I also had similar
discussions with leaders in Lebanon and
Jordan as well as on repeated phone
calls with the P5 and other key Regional
and international Partners who are
ceased of an activity engaged and
addressing this
conflict we are all seeking a common
understanding and Approach at this
critical
time I welcome the visits of world
leaders such as German Chancellor Schulz
the UK foreign minister cleverly and
today uh the visit by President Biden
with the parties on the ground in
Jerusalem Tel Aviv and ramalan my
message have remained steadfast that we
must not let the dynamic of the current
conflict take our
eyes off what I will call the day
after the day after we need to start
working on now
immediately we we know the way
forward these days I can tell you
diplomacy is very hard but here is what
we need to
do we need the time and space to achieve
two urgent
objectives Hamas immediate unconditional
release of all hostages
secondly and fast unrestricted access of
humanitarian aid for Palestinians in
Gaza the 1 must be a collective efforts
to end the hostilities and prevent any
further expansion of the conflict to the
region regarding West Bank and
Lebanon there should be no
miscalculation no provocation and no
step that closes the door for our
current
efforts the Step Beyond must beone the
path towards the political solution
ultimately the only way to bring the end
to the blood leting and prevent any
recurrence of the pave and to PVE a way
forward a long-term political solution
in is needed in line with un resolutions
international law and previous
agreements as I've stated many times to
this Council a patch work of ad hoc and
temporary fixes and Perpetual management
of conflict without addressing
underlying issues is not sustainable
that has been proven over the last 11
days what we are seeing on the ground
now all too tragically proves that this
is
true what we must do now is to work
together as one to achieve these
objectives thank you
I thank Mr wesland for his briefing I
now give the floor to Mr Martin
Griffith Martin you have the floor we
can't hear
you
can you hear me now yes yes okay sorry
sorry my technical knowledge Sergio is
not brilliant
um thank you very much for for inviting
me and I what I was saying was what an
honor it is for me to be on the same
Podium as t uh and I associate myself
profoundly with every single word that
he said which is born out of years of
relevant experience including not just
looking at the horrors of the last 11
days but anxiously looking ahead at the
horrors to come so all credit to special
coordinator T
venan but I also of course join him and
all members of the council in expressing
my horror and despair the explosion that
he described watching as so many of us
did at the alaki Anglican Episcopal
hospital in the northern Gaza Strip
yesterday evening my heartfelt
condolences of course go out to the
grouping The Grieving families affected
by this
heart-wrenching
tragedy and I also extend my sincerest
wishes for a Swift and complete recovery
to all those who've been
injured according to the World Health
Organization
the
hospital in question was one of 20 in
Northern Gaza subject to the
announcement by the Israeli authorities
that civilians should leave for their
safety it's a terrible thought to think
of that the morning
after however evacuation for many had
simply not been
possible due to insecurity as we have
been discussing in this chamber this
afternoon the critical condition of many
of the
patients um and and indeed the lack of
ambulances staff and capacity in the
rest of the health system which as you
know Mr President is on its knees in
Gaza when that hospital was
hit it was fully
operational and indeed it had breached
its maximum
imum capacity it was therefore
overflowing with patients including
women and
children dozens of Health Care Providers
and
caregivers demonstrating their
extraordinary frankly extraordinary
courage and commitment to remain silk
plus remain there to do their duties and
to remain steadfast by their patient
sides and they were also in the
building and the hospital was also
hosting numerous internally displaced
people who either had nowhere else to go
or Sheltering there in the expectation
or at least perhaps the hope that it
would provide
safety and they were
wrong so far reports indicate hundreds
of fatalities hundreds of civilians and
healthcare workers and I associate
myself with tor's call for a fact-based
inquiry to find out how this
happened here I want to say one thing of
the highest importance to all of us in
the humanitarian community and those of
us all of us indeed who are governed by
the rules of war and international
humanitarian law
what happened on the 7th of
October in The Invasion into Israel and
The Taking of those hostages
still taken and hidden away in Gaza was
simply wrong against the law
unconscionable
unacceptable their unconditional release
is an essential component of any
return to the kind of normaly that
Manana was describing to us uh earlier
before this session
started since the 7th of
October 28 health workers in Gaza have
reportedly been killed 23 have been
injured there's no lack of Courage
there's no lack of commitment in that
population there have been many reports
of Health Facilities
sustaining extensive damage indeed the
hospital itself had already been struck
as you know on the 14th of
October gaza's Health Services as I've
been hearing here in Cairo these last
day or two are being overwhelmed by the
extreme Challenge of meeting the health
care needs of the rising number of
wounded patients all the while facing
significant shortages of medical
supplies water and
fuel and the destruction of that
hospital
yesterday heaped further pressure on
this
crumbling this
failing this sad Health Care System Not
only would the victims rush to shifa
hospital one of the many other
hospitals in Gaza on the verge of
collapse but it also now deprives Gaza
of a facility that cared for more than
45,000 patients a year before the
current
hostilities so I am compelled to
reiterate and this will not surprise
anybody as everyone else has done on
many occasions in this
Council that under International
humanitarian
law there are simple requirements
there are simple rules of War which are
applied to all of us whatever the
provocation and God knows there has been
provocation parties to arm conflict must
protect
civilians and civilian objects take
constant care to spare them from any
attack we have discussed this in almost
every other conflict in this chamber
around the world this one is no
different
international law affords specific
protection to medical personnel and
Facilities to ensure the wounded and
sick receive the medical care they need
it was no
coincidence that one of the first
humanitarian leaders on the
scene after those events of the 7th of
October was our dear friend and leader
Dr Tedros of
who it's
imperative that the wounded and sick
receive the medical care they
need it is
imperative that the parties respect
their
obligations under the inter under
International humanitarian law and it is
our Collective responsibility we are all
involved in this we are not
observers we are all involved in using
all our influence to ensure that this is
the case
this tragedy is
characteristic of the crushing impact
this conflict has had on
civilians and as Tor has been pointing
out and Lana earlier the catastrophic
consequences it will have if it
continues to escalate as we
fear in just 11 days since that storming
of Israel by Palestinian armed groups on
7th of O October the death toll as has
been mentioned has already exceeded that
of the 2014
hostilities which lasted more than seven
weeks the pace of death of suffering of
destruction of breaches of international
law cannot be
exaggerated in Gaza more than 3,000
people have been killed more than 12 12
and a half thousand
injured hundreds are unaccounted for
under the rubble and quite frankly we do
not know how many have moved from the
north to the South to get out of Harm's
Way the death toall
also we all know this well includes
humanitarians I want to pay
tribute to the
15 UNR staff and ready Red Cross and red
cresant Personnel that I've been meeting
these
days families of those who have
fallen we estimate that maybe up to a
million people have fled their homes to
other parts of Gaza but we don't really
know uh many have done so in response
indeed to Israel's announcement that
civilians should leave Northern Gaza for
safety but there is simply nowhere to go
for civilians to escape the destruction
and privation both of which grow by the
hour as missiles continue to fly and
essential supplies including F fuel food
medical items water run
low due to the scarcity of
water anra in some locations and I want
to pay a special tribute to anra but the
way in which has provided a buffer
against suffering in these terrible
times and in unra in some locations is
being forced to ration down to
providing one liter of water per person
per
day bear in mind that the minimum by
International standards should be
15 lers
and they're getting
one and they're the lucky
ones people have been increasingly
forced to consume from unsafe sources
we're hearing many many more reports of
that through anra and other agencies
placing the population at risk of course
of the outbreak of waterborne
diseases and whether civilians move or
stay and that must be their decision
whether to move or stay whether to move
again or stay where they have moved
to whether they move or stay they must
be
protected they must not be attacked in
places of Civilian infrastructures they
must be protected in places of
deconfliction and they must have access
to the essentials of humanitarian
assistance to survive which are
available and in which we have all spent
many many detailed hours in detailed
negotiations with the parties and I'm
grateful to them to all of them for the
commitment that they have shown to these
negotiations it means that the UN and
the humanitarian partners and I
specifically refer to the great
leadership shown and I met their leaders
today of the Egyptian red presentent and
the Palestinian red Cresent must be able
to relief
deliver excuse me to deliver relief to
civilians in need throughout Gaza
without impediment in places of their
choice in places where they consider
safe themselves to be safe and where we
can seek to ensure that
safety we have humanitarian supplies we
have medical teams anra has a staff of
14,000 in Gaza still bravely working
under these conditions the other
agencies do the red crants of course
have many many many volunteers and they
are all ready to assist the people most
in need I'm very grateful to many member
states for providing very quickly
emergency funding for available for the
immediate relief in Gaza including from
the central emergency response fund that
my office
runs and the occupied territories
humanitarian fund thank you thank you to
all of you who stepped up so
quickly what we don't have however we
have a lot but what we don't have and
it's the killer what we desperately need
is immediate safe humanitarian access
across all of Gaza and that is the
burden of our discussions with key
parties
we urgently need a mechanism agreed by
all relevant
parties to allow for the regular
provision of emergency needs throughout
Gaza to get the level of distribution of
assistance up to what it was before
these terrible weeks of a 100 trucks a
day providing assistance throughout Gaza
to people in need we need to get back to
that level of
ambition for that we need additional
funding agencies like onra world food
program and of course for the red crants
in their leadership role and without new
funding
unra already painfully
woefully lacking in funds will not have
the ability to continue to deliver Cross
services but as Mr President has tour
said and I'm glad he did and he made two
I think very important
points Gaza is not the only location of
concern in this deeply troubling
conflict since the start of the latest
hostilities situation in the West Bank
has also been deteriorating as Tor said
and he should know last week was the
deadliest week for Palestinians in the
West Bank since the United Nations
started recording fatalities in
2005 while settler violence incidents
also have gone up from an average of
three incidents a day to
eight
suffering knows no borders widespread
closures throughout the West Bank are
impacting the ability of communities to
access essential services and there is a
real risk of the situation expiring out
of control but the people people of
Israel Palestine the region need what we
all need what this council's mandate is
in existence to
secure is the sanity and humanitarian to
Prevail drawing on the provisions of
international humanitarian law for
Urgent efforts this was toward second
point to arrest any further descent in
this brutal
calamity
Lana said it very eloquently the worry
that I suppose many of us have where
will this lead us where will this lead
us when the fighting has taken
place of course we implore the parties
to respect International humanitarian
law and by the way I want to be very
clear humanitarian ceasefire would go a
long way to easing the Epic human
suffering
finally Mr President I know I've gone on
too long I want to conclude by
expressing my deepest
admiration gratitude and comedy for the
extraordinary people who are delivering
life saving and humanitarian
services in Gaza in the West Bank as
they do in so many other parts of the
world many of whom are displaced many
have lost loved ones many of our staff
in all our agencies have had that kind
of suffering the dedication and bravery
of ambulance Crews Health Care
Professionals people working in
hospitals and
Clinics actually is a
reminder of the fundamentals of
humanity which Drive our efforts to
resolve these
differences to resolve them through
diplomacy through dialogue
through kindness through
generosity and through
accountability I also want to express my
profound personal gratitude I have said
it also already for tour but also to my
colleague and his colleague our Deputy
special coordinator resident and
humanitarian coordinat somebody with the
title as long as mine Lynn
Hastings and the humanitarian Aran were
demonstrating unwavering commitment to
providing essential assistance and
relief their Collective efforts their
unstinting focus on key priorities which
are based on operational
needs exemplifies not just the United
Nations enduring commitment to extending
hope and support but
exemplifies the commitment of the
humanitarian community
and its supporters all of whom are in
this room to do the job that they have
decided and resolved to choose for their
lives soio Mr President thank you very
much I thank Mr Griffith for his
briefing I now give the floor to the
members of the security
Council I give the floor to the
representative of the Russian Federation
Mr
President colleagues along with the
delegations of the UAE in China we
initiated today's emergency security
council meeting given the tragic events
in the Gaza
Strip
yesterday as a result of air strikes the
Ali AKA hospital was destroyed in in the
area of Gaza
City we are deeply shocked by what
occurred the angan church hospital was
one of the 20 in Northern Gaza that
received evacuation notices from the
Israeli
military however it was impossible to
meet that requirement and Martin
Griffith already said that given the
prevailing unstable situation the
critical condition of many patients and
also the shortage of ambulances staff
stretches and alternative accommodation
for the displaced
persons the air strike on the hospital
according to latest reports caused over
800 deaths and
injuries we are calling for an objective
investigation to be carried out and for
the perpetrators to be
prosecuted Mr President colleagues this
is the price of the inertia of members
of the council many of whom have
procrastinated over the past 11 days
since the start of the escalation
surrounding Gaza we warned you about
this on Monday when a number of members
of the council Guided by in inverted
commers purely humanitarian
considerations but actually by purely
political considerations did not support
the Russian draft on the ceasefire our
document laid out a number of specific
urgent measures designed to stop
violence and civilian suffering designed
to release the hostages and to prevent
the impending
humanitarian to prevent the impending
humanitarian disaster in that part of
Palestine and avoid the conflict
spilling over into other countries of
the region given the extremely tense
situation action should have been taken
very promptly this is precisely why our
draft did not contain political elements
or views or a mention of any party to
the conflict that might have complicated
reaching agreement on
it despite this in full view of the
International Community the UN Security
Council the primary body for the
maintenance of International Peace and
security was not in a position to adopt
a decision that could have prevented the
humanitarian tragedy in Gaza the council
did not send a clear robust Collective
signal with a call for a swift
lasting uh reasonable humanitarian
ceasefire today we have seen the
terrible fruit of
this once again it's become clear that
the position of Washington and some
other Western capitals did not allow for
a natural logical decision to be
taken uh this given the current
circumstances is an absolute Key Human
itarian imperative and it is the moral
duty of all responsible members of the
International Community furthermore
humanitarian considerations the Norms of
international law and the root causes of
why the Palestinian question has not
been settled all things we've repeatedly
and insistently stressed over recent
years of course don't count for
them Mr President the number of uh
injured and dead in Israel was or dead
and injured rather was
1,400 and 3,9 900 respectively the
number of victims in Palestine was more
than 2,800 and 10,800 respectively and
today these figures are even higher as
per un reports 450 children have died in
Gaza and some 750 are still under the
rubble the buildings destroyed during
the air strikes more than 2 million
inhabitants of Gaza still have no water
food medical assistance fuel or electric
electricity the only border crossing on
the border with Egypt the Rafa Crossing
once again is coming under missile fire
and has not been opened up for civilian
evacuations or the provision of
humanitarian Goods de facto the military
blockade of Gaza has held hostage 1,000
Russian citizens and members of their
families given this very worrying
situation the UN agencies The Who UNICEF
the UN FBA with one voice condemned the
strike on the AL Aki hospital and called
for a prompt active protection of
civilians and medical infrastructure
yesterday at the briefing on the
situation in Gaza the deputy head of
Ocha Joyce misya noted that the number
of victims of the current escalation in
the Palestinian um Israeli conflict that
has gone on for 11 days has already
exceeded the number of victims uh that
were killed during the hostilities in
2014 the path to that ceasefire took
some s weeks this cannot fail to horrify
us humanitarian workers are dying the
number of people forced to leave their
homes in Gaza is about 1 million people
the humanitarian blockade of the
Palestinian Enclave is pushing the
entire population to the brink the
population that de facto right before
our eyes are being
sacrificed Mr President we would urge
the Israeli side to Prior PR itiz
International humanitarian law at the
center of which is the lives of
Palestinian citizens and critical
emergency care and medical
facilities humanitarian access should be
provided without delay we call for an
immediate ceasefire and an opening of
corridors to supply emergency
humanitarian assistance to the effective
areas of the Palestinian enclave and to
evacuate civilians an immediate
cessation of violence against civilians
as well irrespective of where they live
in a number of Arab and European
countries there have been outbreaks of
large scale unres given the ongoing
Israeli missile Straits in this regard
we condemn the attacks on diplomatic
missions in foreign countries of foreign
States Mr President all that we're
talking about just now is happening with
the inaction of the security C which is
paralyzed by the self-serving interests
of some countries and with unilateral
actions which not only have ended in
complete failure but also have led to a
widespread escalation of violence in the
Middle East region Mr President we are
extremely concerned by the unprecedented
scale of the humanitarian disaster in
the Gaza Strip and the higher risk of
the conflict
spillover assuming the UN Security
Council is not able to come up with an
appropriate response to these challenges
is we will initiate a resumed the
resumed 10th emergency special session
of the UN on the protection of civilians
in Palestine in order to have a
comprehensive discussion of the
situation regarding the Palestinian
Israeli conflict and ways to settle it a
letter on this for the president of the
ga has already been written and it will
be dispatched forth with thank
you
I thank the representative of the
Russian Federation for their statement
and I now give the floor to the
representative of
Gabor I thank special coordinator to
wesland and under Secretary General
Martin Griffiths for their briefings
president the air strikes which hit the
Anglican Hospital in Gaza yesterday
claiming hundreds of lives and
numerous injured amongst amongst
Palestinian civilians is the reflection
of the extreme brutality and gravity of
the war between Israel and
Hamas Gabon
firmly condemns these
strikes and the responsibility for these
must be established we recall also that
Health units and and their personnel
must be protected in all circumstances
pursuant to International humanitarian
law since the barbarous unjustifiable
and unacceptable attacks of hamus upon
Israel on the 7th of October the
indiscriminate deadly violence against
civilians has reached unsustainable
levels my country recognizes Israel's
right to legitimate defense which must
be exercised whilst upholding the
principles of proportionality and
distinction between combatants and
civilians 11 days since the outbreak
outbreak of
facilities War scenes of War marked by
indiscriminate shelling are suffused
with horror with dramatic consequences
on
civilians the dead and injured are now
counted in the thousands atrocities
against women and children and
destruction are all
immeasurable in addition to the cynicism
of using human
shields in addition to the rejection of
Hostage taking of women and children we
at the moment are seeing millions of
people under siege in
Gaza without water food gas or
electricity with death as their only
prospect it is time to bring an end to
this deadly cycle of
violence and this unbearable human
distress we call for an immediate
cessation of hostilities and for the
opening of humanitarian
corridors to assist civilian populations
in need in Gaza all parties must abide
by their obligations pursuant to
International humanitarian law and allow
for immediate unhindered humanitarian
access to those in need I take this
opportunity to pay
tribute to the humanitarian Personnel
who are carrying out their activities
courageously in difficult hostile
conditions at risk of their
lives president the conflagration of
violence between Israel and Hamas is
jeopardizing peace security and
stability in the region and Beyond the
epicenter the International Community
must exhibit greater commitment to
prevent and avoid other fronts or poles
of violence in the region which would
make the situation still more
intractable exchanges of fire between
Israel and Hezbollah in the south of
Lebanon are in this regard extremely
worrisome this Council must urgently act
to prevent the situation from becoming
bogged down above and beyond strategic
interests for each member above and
beyond the depth of emotions we must
without delay achieve deescalation and
halt the
fighting we must silence the guns
diplomacy dialogue and
negotiation which are at the heart of
the United Nations are the inescapable
channels to achieve a solution which
guarantees the rights and interests of
the parties and for
Gabon the two-state solution still has
no credible alternative thank you of
Gabon for their statement and I now give
the floor to the representative of
China
[Music]
thank you Mr
President Mr
President I wish to thank USG Griffith
and special coordinator wiland for their
briefings I wish to particularly commend
special coordinator
wesland for his tireless efforts in
actively engaging with all parties for
the dis deescalation of the conflict to
prevent human Aran
crisis together with UAE and the Russian
Federation China also requested this
emerging
meeting the AL AK Hospital in Gaza was
attacked which claimed the lives of
hundreds of innocent civilians China is
shocked by this heinous act attack and
strongly condemns
it the protection of civilians in armed
conflict is a red line under
International humanitarian law civilians
and civilian facilities such as
hospitals and schools should not and
must not be targeted in military
operations the indiscriminate use of
forces not acceptable and the safety of
humanitarian medical workers must be
guaranteed we urge Israel to effectively
fulfill its International humanitarian
law
obligations look around in gasa right
now tragedies like the one at Al
Hospital are unfolding all the time as a
result of the total blockade imposed by
Israel the supply of water electricity
and fuel in the Gaza Strip has been cut
off the basic supplies such as food and
Medicine a drink Ling and urgently
needed tens of thousands of gazin have
been forced to move South because of the
emergency evacu evacuation order issued
by Israel but have suffered from air
strikes in the South as well from the
north to the South
Gaza is full of frightened children and
desperate
mothers under the current
circumstances there's no time to lose in
protecting the safety of civilians
carrying out humanitarian relief and
preventing a humanitarian crisis we call
on Israel to lift the full blockade of
Gaza resent the emergency uh evacuation
order and stop the air strikes around
the Rafa Crossing we welome come the
international community's efforts to
open humanitarian Corridor and look
forward to substantive progress in the
relevant Communications and arrangements
as soon as possible we appreciate the
important role played by Egypt and other
Regional
countries Mr
President development over the past few
days have amply demonstrated that an
immediate and comprehensive ceasefire
must be the overriding priority as long
as the War continues more violations of
international humanitarian law are
inevitable without a comprehensive
ceasefire any amount of humanitarian
assistance will be a drop in the bucket
if the current figh in Gaza is allowed
to drag on the end result will not be a
complete Victory military victory for
any side but rather most likely will be
a catastroph catastrophe that will
engulf the entire region that will
probably complete end the prospect for a
two-side solution plunging the
Palestinian and isra Israeli peoples
into a vicious cycle of hatred and
confrontation Arab
countries have issued a strong call for
an immediate and comprehensive cesy the
International Community should heat this
just call of Arab countries and the
Palestinian
people we should Unite all current
Diplomat diplomatic efforts towards this
goal China welcomes any initiative that
is conducive to easing the humanitarian
crisis and reducing the suffering of
civilians and supports all efforts aimed
at DIS escalating the conflict and
restoring peace we hope that all parties
concerned will maintain impartiality
actively leveraging their influence on
the parties concerned to promote common
restraint and work for the session of
hostilities as soon as possible under
the current circumstances all diplomatic
efforts should work to send unified
signal first there are no winners in
Wars violence or violence can only lead
to more serious crisis there must be an
immediate ceasefire abundant military
means and return to the track of
dialogue and
negotiation second any violence and
attacks against civilians should be
rejected both the Palestinians and the
Israelis have the right to be free from
fear and their security should be
equally
protected
third international humanitarian law
must be followed the basic needs of the
people of Gaza must be ensured the
humanitarian Corridor must be opened
immediately and the hostages must be
released fourth the fundamental solution
to the Palestinian Israeli question lies
in the Imp implementation of the
two-state solution based on relevant un
resolutions and other International
consensus to achieve a comprehensive
just and Lasting settlement so that
Palestine and Israel can live side by
side in peace Mr President the security
Council Bears the primary responsibility
for maintaining International Peace and
Security in the face of the continuing
spread of conflicts and the increasingly
imminent humanitarian disaster the
security Council has no reason to remain
silent and no excuse to delay further
China does not agree with the claim that
the security Council actions will
interfere with ongoing diplomatic
efforts though the draft resolutions
proposed by both Russia and Brazil have
not been adopted China the security
Council cannot stop at
this China expects all members of the
security Council to face up to their
responsibilities under the charter
respond to the expectations of the
Palestinians and the Israeli peoples and
of the International Community move
forward in unity and build consensus and
make binding decisions on the current
crisis situation decisions that will
stand the test of history and
conscience China has been making efforts
all along we will continue to work with
the International Community to play a
constructive role for the ceasefire and
the session of hostilities the
protection of civilians and the
prevention of further humanitarian
crisis in order to realize a
comprehensive just and Lasting solution
to the question of Palestine thank you
Mr
President I thank the representative of
China for their statement and I now give
the floor to the representative of Ghana
thank you Mr President and we have
listen carefully to the sobering
briefing by special coordinator to
wesland and USG marthew Griffiths we
remain deeply concerned by the unfolding
developments in the Gaza Strip in Israel
at the outset while reiterating our
strong condemnation of the present
hostilities initiated by the Hamas
militia on the 7th of October 2023 we
are profoundly distressed by the attack
on the Al Ali Hospital in Gaza that was
also Sheltering civilians at the time it
was hit we condemn the attack which adds
to the growing frustration and human
tragedy of this conflict and we call for
a full and transparent investigation of
the incident and the establishment of
accountability since 7th October the
world has witnessed unimaginable Horror
in southern Israel and in the Gaza Strip
many lives have been lost and many more
will be lost if the fighting does not
stop we deeply regret the high civilian
cost arising out of the present
hostilities and express our solidarity
and sympathies to all the families who
have lost loved ones to the violence in
both Israel and Palestine Mr President
Ghana believes that as a council and at
this time our foremost responsibility
alongside that of The Wider
International Community
should be saving lives all lives in this
regard we call on Hamas to immediately
and unconditionally release all hostages
and concurrently urge both sides to hold
the firing of rockets and missiles we
further urge Israel to restore essential
services such as electricity and water
supply to Gaza and permit humanitarian
access of food and medicines to the
vulnerable populations in Gaza we note
the efforts of the United Nations and
other humanitarian partners committed to
operating in the unfolding difficult
circumstances and Edge funding for the
emerging humanitarian needs and for the
and for the flash appeal in making these
calls however we do not ignore the
dictates of international law and the
charter of this organization including
relevant resolutions which affirm the
right of guaranteed territorial
inviability of for the states in the
region including Israel as well as their
right to self-defense nor deny the
necessity of account ability for those
most responsible for the egregious
horrific and heinous incidents committed
since Hamas initiated his attacks
against Israel on 7th October for many
member states reborn into modern
statehood in the last century we cannot
cease to underscore the importance of
respect and adherance to the established
principles of international law
international humanitarian law civilians
and civilians objects must be protected
at all times and international law
which has an international law which has
been instrumental in the achievement of
our respective status must be upheld by
all even in Conflict to protect innocent
lives to safeguard security and
facilitate the aspirations for Statehood
the deration of the security situation
and the upward spiral of the violence
poses the risk of a further spread and a
danger to International Peace and
security we therefore strongly urge a
stop to the fighting accompanied by the
the excise of Maximum restraint in good
faith by all sides to enable mediation
to play its role in releasing the
hostages and addressing all immediate
concerns including the growing
humanitarian needs of the civilian
population in Gaza we must all make
every effort to De to reverse the
downward spiral and provide a horizon of
Hope for the people of the two Nations I
conclude by reiterating Ghana's enduring
commitment of support for achieving
durable peace between Israel and
Palestine we believe that reinvigorating
the Middle East peace process presents
the most viable path for the
International Community to end the cycle
of violence the vision of a region where
Israel and Palestine live side by side
with insecure and recognized borders
should not be diminished even in this
darkest of ours I thank
you I thank the representative of Ghana
for their statement and I now give the
floor to the representative of
Switzerland
mer Mr President thank you thank you
very much for having convened this
emergency meeting I would also like to
thank the under Secretary General Mr
Martin griffi and special coordinator
tour venis land for their very sincere
descriptions
of a very very Bleak situation I'd like
to thank them and in particular their
team
for their efforts their work their
courage in the most difficult of
circumstances I would like to express my
condolences to the families of the
victims of those humanitarian workers
who have died as early as the 7th of
October Switzerland very strongly
condemned the acts of Terror the
indiscriminate attacks and hostage
taking perpetrated by hamers against the
Israeli population we call for all that
is all hostages held in Gaza to be
treated humanely and released
immediately and our thoughts are with
them Switzerland joins the Secretary
General also in unequivocally condemning
yesterday's strikes in particular the
one that according to the United Nations
left hundreds dead and dant injured at
the alaki Anglican
hospital we extend our deepest
condolences to the families of the
victims this incident must be thoroughly
investigated so that the facts can be
clarified Mr President we can but repeat
it over and over again the civilian
population and civilian objects must be
respected and protected International
humanitarian law also requires that
hospitals clinics and the people who are
treated there as well as the medical
staff who work there be
protected the same applies to UNR
schools which are civilian facilities of
the UN at the at the same time the
humanitarian situation in Gaza continues
to deteriorate rapidly Water and Power
cuts are causing a serious health crisis
nearly a million gazans have had to flee
their homes to take refuge in the South
the Gaza Strip is under Complete Siege
onr schools act as vital shelters for
the 400,000 displaced persons many of
them children the capacity of these
schools as well of those of the
hospitals has been exceeded all parties
must allow the safe rapid and unimpeded
delivery of humanitarian Aid we urge
them to immediately observe pauses in
hostilities and as the Secretary General
has called for a humanitarian
ceasefire Mr President as we repeat
after the vote this morning all parties
must exercise the most utmost restraint
in the conduct of hostilities they must
respect International humanitarian law
in particular the principles of
Distinction proportionality and
precaution and human rights all possible
measures must be taken to avoid the
impact of hostilities on the civilian
population and civilians as
International humanitarian law takes
account of legitimate security and
Military necessity all its rules must be
respected without
exception we stress the need to
investigate all violations of
international law so that the
perpetrators can be brought to
Justice the respect for International
humanitarian law can also curb a spiral
of violence that could ignite the entire
region Mr President Switzerland
underlines the importance of the good
offices of the United Nations in this
crisis we'd like to thank them we
welcome the secretary General's visit to
Egypt and the region as under Secretary
General Martin Griffith and anra
commissioner General excuse me Philip
lazarini said yesterday in a joint
statement and I quote Humanity must
Prevail in Gaza Humanity must Prevail
everywhere deescalation must remain the
priority as members of the security
Council we must redouble our efforts to
contribute to this and exert our
influence on the parties
individually